
                      this is firewall 
                   it based on linux operating system. 
                   it name untangle 

there have some application can install on it after you install Operating System. so you can filter something accross from internet to your LAN 

......................
WHAT IS WAN? 
   the network card that connect from router to your internet is WAN.

WHAT IS LAN? 
   the network card that connect from router too your PC IS LAN.

so everything you are using, untangle can monitor your traffic all. 
because untange act as router. 

យើងយល់ទេថាហេតុអ្វីបាន firewall យើងមាន Network card 2 ? 
ដោយសារតែម្ខាងវាភ្ជាប់ទៅកាន់ WAN និងម្ខាងទៀតភ្ជាប់ទៅកាន់ LAN

វាដើតួរដូច Router អីចឹងវាអាច Translate Local Traffic ទៅកាន់ WAN បាន។
ដូចនេះហើយបានជាត្រូវការមាន Network Card 2 

it is ok you setup GUI mode and text mode. 
GUI you can use mouse, and text mode you can use keyboard only. 
the same thing. 
most of peoples study linux they dont like GUI 
they like text mode. 
text mode make you think deeply inside than look GUI

eth0: first network card and it act as WAN Port 
     - this network card it obtain ip from router/modem etc. 

eth1: second network card and it act as LAN Port 
     - this network card it provide dhcp-server to client, so client that connect to this network card will get ip automatic from it. 

all of you ever configure router sharing  internet at home or not? 
so it is the same thing, just assume that untangle is your router 
if you have hardware and then you setup untange in it it will become router box. 

if you want to buy from aliexpress it take time around 1months, and then when it arrive POS telecom in battambang will call you and bring to your house. 
i experience bough from china, and just put address and phone number when we purchase, such as battambang province, email: and  phone numbe.r 

you need to use ram 2GB at least for setup untangle, it require 2GB of RAM.

........................................
Authentication:  how you access to it? by password? key? something else. 

Authorized: who will be authorized? 

normal wifi using authentication by password(input password can access to wifi)

hotspot is authentication method + authorized so need username and password for access to wifi service. 

     អ្វីដែលខ្ញុំគូសលើក្តាខៀនវាមានឆ្វេងស្តាំ តែដល់ការងារជាក់ស្តែងអត់មានឆ្វេងស្តាំ ដូចរូបទេ ព្រោះថាយើងសន្មត់យក port ណាមួយធ្វើជា WAN និង LAN 
ការងារជាក់ស្តែងយើងមិនអាចទៅបន្លាយខ្សែដូចរូបខ្ញុំគូសអីចឹងនោះទេ

i see one website good for learning, 
you can create account and then study video they teach in there, and then test exam, some exam is free, and some exam pay 10$ only. 
                   
                   https://www.cybrary.it/
























